Ubuntu

sudo apt install git

git clone https://github.com/xybu92/onedrive-d.git

Then, enter the code directory to start the install process.

cd ~/onedrive-d

Installing OneDrive-D

The OneDrive-D code downloaded with Git contains a lot of different things; 
binaries, libraries, and different scripts, etc. Luckily, the developers made 
installing this software very straight-forward. They’ve written a Bash script 
that will completely configure the program, and get everything working. To start 
the installation process, simply run the script. This is done by running it as a 
program.

Running the script will allow it to start installing all of the little things 
that OneDrive-D needs to run correctly. Specifically, libraries, and other 
important tools that the program is built with will be installed. Be sure to 
enter your password (if asked) and allow the program to continue installing what 
it needs.
Configure OneDrive-D

Next in the process comes configuring OneDrive-D. This is necessary, as the 
program needs to connect to Microsoft servers and start the initial sync. Since 
OneDrive-D is a terminal based program, the initial program will not create a 
desktop icon, or anything like that. Instead, a command is required to start the 
configuration process. Start it in a terminal with:

onedrive-perf

There are 4 simple steps to this configuration process. The first step involves 
connecting the sync client to your Microsoft account. In the terminal, 
onedrive-perf will print out a one-time link. Paste this link into your default 
browser, and authorize OneDrive-D access to your Microsoft account to continue 
to step 2 of the process.

After clicking “yes” in the connection window, you’ll need to paste the callback 
URL back into the terminal. Not sure what that is? It’s the URL that the 
connection window redirects to. You’ll know you’re getting the right URL, 
because refreshing stops. A good giveaway is to look for “code=” in the URL.

Step two in the process is to tell OneDrive-D where to sync to. If you haven’t 
got a OneDrive sync folder on your PC already, now is the time to create one. 
Open another terminal and enter this command:

mkdir -p ~/OneDrive

Then, in step 2, tell the program where the folder is so that it can be used as 
the sync location. Be sure to use the full path: /home/username/OneDrive/

Step 1 and 2 are the most important parts of the configuration process. Steps 3 
and 4 involve settings to do with both the numeric settings and the ignore file 
list. Most Microsoft OneDrive users will not need to do anything with steps 3 
and 4. Enter “n” for no to get through both of these steps. If for some reason 
you feel like you want to edit these settings, choose Y instead to do so.

Note: be sure to change “username” to your PC’s username in the command.
Syncing with OneDrive-D

When the configuration process finishes, syncing can begin. Much like 
configuration, this needs to be done within the terminal. OneDrive-D runs in the 
background as a process. All that the user needs to do is start it. This is done 
with:

onedrive-d start

From here, the terminal can be closed at any time. OneDrive-D will continue 
running as a background program, uploading and downloading anything placed in 
the OneDrive sync folder. To turn off the background program, use this command:

onedrive-d stop

Conclusion

Microsoft OneDrive is one of the better cloud storage tools out there. It has 
great integration within the Windows desktop, along with neat features like 
integrating Microsoft Office, fast upload/download speeds and more. It’s no 
wonder some Linux users are begging Microsoft to bring this service and it’s 
features to their favorite operating system as well. Unfortunately, Microsoft 
has no plans to do so.

As Linux users, we’ll never be able to experience what it’s like to have this 
service baked into our operating system like Windows users do. Luckily, for 
those that need access to OneDrive and are willing to go without some of the 
flashy things, this program is a must. If OneDrive isn’t your preferred cloud 
storage, you can check out Google Drive. It’s fairly easy to access Google Drive 
on Linux.
